today on brstv we're gonna do something
a little bit different we're gonna go on
the road and visit some new tanks that
have been stalled by aquarium artisans
so I'm here in Kentucky with Jeremy from
aquarium artisans and we're doing re4
profile of some of the tank installs
they've done this is the first one here
Ryan this is a 325 gallons saltwater
aquarium has right around 40 fish in it
and it's a live rock install that we put
in one of our signature stacks where we
hide all of the PVC and runner around
the client is a heavy feeder he really
likes his fish and we're gonna continue
to add some few more fish in here for
him what this is is a 5/8 laminated
Starfire tank from miracles aquariums
with custom cabinetry features aqua
illumination Vega lighting on rails of
top down below we have our power as far
as our filtration you have a super reef
octopus XP 5,000 that's gigantic 57 watt
UV that's underneath here it's inline on
a dart pump 1/2 horsepower tradewinds
chiller and the cabinet has CNC routing
on the side of it that allows for air
flow into the chiller it goes underneath
of there and as far as maintenance of
this account we take care of this one
time a week on a Friday the client
actually feeds about a pound of krill
and about four packs of Larry's food and
we can bat all of that food with massive
water changes obviously the filtration
that you see and we use products from
BRS as well where we put in GFO use
three part to keep the rock nice and
colorful we keep that calcium up in
order to keep that algae down keep
talking a little bit more about that
food again you said Larry's food Barry's
neutral Larry's reef services food we
use the fish only blend Larry actually
makes a specific blend for us it's a
chunkier blend some of the bigger
animals like our sapporo puffer he's
floating around over there he likes to
eat it and chew it up as well as our
large Niger trigger we also use a
herbivore frenzy for some of the tangs
and as well as the fox face and the 16
ounce pack of krills for our big
meat-eaters too as well like our trigger
and our puffer and things of that nature
look at the cabinetry point the
cabinetry was done by my woodworker
binners woodworking at 11
ohayo Chris really takes the extra
attention to detail it's UV coat of
plywood that's underneath it here and
this cabinet will actually hold about 50
gallons of water if there's ever an
overflow we try and make sure that never
happens with a check valve and
everything else that we install in the
system Chris also CNC routes this for
flow through the chiller so I can
install it underneath of the cabinet he
really really thinks like a reefer you
know one of the things when we designed
this aquarium he said you know obviously
I don't want it to fall through the
floor so the floor was ripped up there
was a steel i-beam that was laid across
here and tied into both of the beams to
support the house underneath those oh
fantastic man this is a really nice tank
thank you all right so we moved on to
our second location of our tour here and
we're actually in Ohio now and is it
tell us about the next tank right well
we added six hundred and forty gallon
custom aquarium that was manufactured by
Titan aquatics exhibits out of Phoenix
Arizona the stand and filtration was all
put in by the local carpenters that were
here features a closed loop system on a
hammerhead goal with a water cooled
chiller from tradewinds underneath would
be a 120 watt aqua UV that's not in yet
as we're still an installation process
and we have also the closed loop comes
through the bottom hitting the
artificial reef structure that was built
by rock and reefs out of Florida the
lighting consists of LED pendants that
will be over top of it the type of LED
pants you plan using this particular
client picked the ones that do all the
cloud simulations and everything from
off illumination the filtration will
come down through the floor and will
actually go into the bottom underneath
of the basement stairs that will run the
sump the regular skimmer and everything
will be underneath the skin would be a
bubble King there's a two horsepower
reflow commercial pump that's on there
as well as the automatic water change
system and oh I have one there so we can
do water changes on the system how many
feet of pipe you think you have run to
this house roughly between the two
installs we've got somewhere between 500
and 600 feet of 2 inch piping in this
home so there's a second tank here a
second tank in here and it's inside the
shell all right so we get the second
tank it's actually built into a shower
here right that is correct Ryan it's
building the shower when the client
first came to us with the concept
talking about building an aquarium in a
shower
we've done one before and we looked at
it and I thought to ourselves it can
definitely be done but they really upped
the ante by having an act
the inside the shower so our concern was
obviously the first thing is you know
water dripping into it and and actually
the heat problems from having a steam
shower inside the aquarium so the way we
looked at it is we oversize the chiller
we put all the filtration in the
basement we made sure this is all
watertight in it the rain heads were
much lower inside the shower than the
actual shower the aquarium itself um the
milder challenges that we had is when
they were tiling this we had to climb up
underneath here and plumb everything
they're going to put a curved panel here
for us so that we can get inside there
if we ever need to tighten ball cuts
down the road the aquarium was built by
Titan aquatics exhibits the artificial
tree tree structure was built by rock
and reefs out of Florida and a life
would be over top of his aqua
illumination with all the different
color changing on it okay so as soon as
you get water in this thing it's gonna
be pretty epic man this is pretty cool
got rain heads everywhere yeah we got
rain heads everywhere and you know the
main concern was is I wanted to when I
first looked at this design I wanted to
flirt acrylic window all the way to the
ceiling the more and more we looked at
it with the homeowner we decided that we
were gonna actually put the physical
aquarium inside of the shower and the
gator weboth water I talked to the
aquarium manufacturer we discussed you
know certain things that we had to keep
off of the glass the homeowner is well
aware of you know different chemicals
and hair things and keep off the glass
in the aquarium we will be here two to
three times a week to make sure we take
care of the cleaning of it and inside
and out so we're gonna stay on top of it
so we make sure that this exhibit stays
crystal clear for the life fantastic
let's take a look at a couple of the
filtration systems you got downstairs I
know they're not complete but we can get
an idea where they absolutely absolute
let's go we have here the filtration for
the 225 gallons shower tank so what we
have here is a 125 gallon sump with k1
Cognos reactor media over here we have
the closed loop reflow a gold pump that
will feed the chiller in the UV on the
other side we have a tiger shrunk pump
that will feed it that goes through
about 150 to 200 feet of line down here
we have the big 2 horsepower
water-cooled tradewinds chiller unit
that will actually keep that aquarium
nice and cooling the showers on we have
a 125 gallon stand-up sump here that
will actually do every bit of water
changes for that system we keep it nice
and crystal clear
we will have all of our UVs and stuff
mounted up here as construction
continues to move forward all right well
thanks for showcasing some of the cool
tanks you're doing over at Aquarian
artisans
hopefully some of our viewers will check
out your website and if that shower tank
is particularly cool
the whole thing's really neat man so I
really appreciate you sharing with our
viewers Thank You Ryan I appreciate and
thank you guys for coming out and seeing
what we do and checking out our new
retail line or a retail store that's
opening thank you modesta thank you